i feel like i'm manipulating a girl that
i'm dating and dr k is the one to
believe that's
that's so hi everyone i23m started
dating this awesome girl 20f recently
and we connected really really well
we talked for hours about our emotions
in a way that i never thought i could
have with anyone and even more when
sober lol she is very emotionally
intelligent and an excellent
communicator because of that it's very
easy to understand her feelings
struggles and experiences meaning that i
don't need to make any effort to
understand and feel empathy towards her
when i'm sharing my struggles feelings
and experiences it's just wonderful i
can see that she really cares about me
that she is paying attention to every
word i say and expression that i make
and she asks really good questions etc i
don't feel judged in any way so it's
it's safe to say that i can trust her
when i'm sharing my flaws and
insecurities so i'm waiting or is anyone
else like waiting for the next shoe to
drop or
what's happening here my problem is in
those conversations i'm often self-aware
that basically everything that i know
and talk about i learned from healthy
gamer gg
or other internet sources
if i'm not self-aware while this
conversation is still happening surely
soon will
surely soon will be af
will be after the conversation is over
i'm self-aware that basically everything
that i know okay
although we talk in a totally different
language it's like every word that comes
out of my mouth is not mine the
confusing part is i'm confident enough
to say that i truly understand what i'm
talking about a portion of it is because
some of it also comes from my own
experiences at the same time i feel like
the knowledge to understand those things
is not mine in the first place
i'm starting to feel like i'm tricking
her into believing that i know about
mental health more than i actually do
meaning that she likes me for something
that is not me or mine
for example interesting
interesting
so for example when she was sharing that
she's anxious all the time and how was
growing up in her household i said
something like since you were a child
you had to anticipate the worst outcomes
to every action you take to protect
yourself you didn't have any other
option besides developing anxiety to
survive that's
why now it is so hard for you to not be
anxious all the time it's something that
helped you when you needed help the most
i can't point exactly where i heard
something extremely similar like that
but i'm sure it was from doctor a doctor
k streamer video my question is am i
tricking her into
in any way into believing i'm something
that i'm not or do i have the right to
share my perception about mental health
even though i'm not the one who came up
with all of it
thanks to everyone who took time for to
read my post it means a lot
um
i point out whenever i can to her that
i'm not an authority on the subject let
alone capable of providing professional
support okay
this is interesting
all right so
the so here's a here's someone who
has spent a lot of time learning things
in his discovering
to his great surprise that the things
that he somehow learns because he didn't
discover himself
are not really he's not entitled to
share it
right so he kind of feels like
everything he's learned he's learned
from somewhere else it's not really his
discovery you don't really own the
information
um and so you kind of feel like you're
kind of cheating on the test right
you're giving someone the right answers
but you cheated on the test
and so
you know my question is am i tricking
her into believing something
believing i'm something that i'm not or
do i have the right to share my
perception about mental health
even though i'm not the one who came up
with all of it
okay so that's a good question it's
interesting the first thing that i want
to do
is point out that like
even the post has a lot of
self-awareness
so in a sense like this is the thing
chat so here's someone who's a 23 year
old dude who's like vibing with a 20
year old chick right so that's cool
and
and then like they're very like
communicative and emotionally supportive
and they're getting along which is like
why we're on the internet
that's an example of why we do this
right so good job i'm really proud of
you and it makes me feel good about the
work that we do because the whole point
of this
is that like you can learn these things
apply them in your own life and like
actually connect with other human beings
and that you can actually be like a
helpful and useful source of goodness
and positivity
now what you need to do
is induct her fully into the cult
good job
right
no but seriously um
that's why we're here so and at the same
time i kind of
right so now now bring her in as well
and then just start tithing 10 of your
income no you don't need to tithe any of
your income we're good thank you very
much for everyone who does donate we
appreciate it
um but you don't you don't need to
donate right it's not donating to us
does not send your soul to heaven
so here's here's uh
so let's like think about this so we can
go two directions with this chat
one is like sort of a standard direction
and the second that we can kind of go on
maybe because i'm on this bend is to
understand who owns knowledge and where
does knowledge come from this is like
more of a meditative thing okay so the
first thing that i'd say is like when
this person says like
you know
do i have the right to share my
perception about mental health
bro that's like a struggle that i had
for like 10 years right so when i was
like training and i don't know if you
guys get this but
you know most of what i teach on the
internet is not like my discovery you
all get that
like it's repackaged but like i spent
seven years studying to become a monk in
like
10 years doing neuroscience research and
like studying to become a psychiatrist
so like what i am passing along to you
it's repost well said
healthy gamer is one massive repost
for
all of the books on the bookshelf
i can't right so we have all these books
back there and like what i did
is read all those books
and then learn all those things
and then
share them with you all so this is not
my knowledge knowledge is not owned by
an individual person
and so i think it sort of makes sense
that you've got to be a little bit
careful because i think you are getting
a little bit diagnostic there
in terms of this is why you're like
formulating another human being which
you got to be careful about you really
have to understand what you're talking
about in order to do that but it sounds
like you do understand so the first
thing to understand is knowledge is not
really owned by a particular person now
we do have you know patents and things
like that which i think makes sense
because i think a lot of work can go
into the packaging of knowledge
but generally speaking it's not like the
ideas of like karma or dharma or
motivation are owned by a particular
person
so everyone has a right to the knowledge
like that's why we sort of teach it we
do our best to teach it freely sometimes
we charge for particular services and
stuff like that but that's because they
cost like a hell of a lot of money to
make
right and sometimes we're also like you
know we charge for coaching because we
want to pay
so coaches
are some things that but generally
speaking like knowledge is not something
that's owned by a particular person
the other thing that's kind of
interesting so now we're gonna i'm gonna
ask you all a question so if you really
want to understand this so this is where
like i could respond to the post and i
could say no you're doing great
everything's fantastic go for it
but i want y'all to understand that if
you really want to overcome this
sentiment you have to understand where
knowledge comes from
so let me ask you guys
where does knowledge come from
ah okay so so there's there's there's
like
you know
some twit chatter who's saying the butt
which
that's a whole other
cult right so some people are saying
like i can't tell what's a real answer
and what isn't so some people are saying
experience and some people are saying
from like books
so let's try to understand
you know like let's think about that for
a second let's say i sit down
and i have a book here right so i have a
book called meditation from the tantras
okay
so when i read when i open this book and
i read it
all right
like
what is the process of
like where does this knowledge come from
right so like i know it sounds kind of
weird but like when i read the words on
the page do i gain knowledge
yes and no so like this is where man i
wish we were like i could talk to a
human because this is slow
so when people say repetition so
someone's saying repetition so let's
think about that for a second
if i read a book three times do i gain
the knowledge in it
and some people are saying maybe
so the yogis in ancient india came to an
interesting conclusion
and their conclusion is that all
knowledge comes from within
that there may be triggers
for your internal understanding
but that essentially no knowledge can
come from the outside
that essentially you can make
observations but the act or the essence
of knowledge does not come from watching
because like before isaac newton i know
this is apocryphal but before isaac
newton saw an apple fall and was like oh
my god there's gravity like human beings
had seen apples fall a lot right like
that information was already in the
world it had been there for a long time
even information about physics and like
science and there's all kinds of
information that has existed within the
world for a long period of time even
within one book
i can read it and get nothing from it or
i can read it and get a lot from it and
so essentially repetition is like
rolling making a knowledge check dc 15.
and so on the first check sometimes i
can do really good otherwise i fail if
like i'm trying to study and there's a
lot of noise right it's like then it's
like i get a minus five penalty to my dc
15 check
and if i'm super in the zone and i
meditated this morning then for example
like you know i get a plus five and it's
like dc 15 but at the end of the day i
can read this book ten times and learn
nothing or read it once and learn a lot
of things and so if the knowledge were
truly in the page
then
i should read it once and i should get
it right
the other thing is if knowledge were
truly external no one would be able to
write a book
because if you think about just the
process of writing a book like the
person who wrote this
it didn't exist before it had to come
with it from within
so the yogis actually concluded
that all knowledge comes from within
and so they also like got a little bit
they went a little crazier and they sort
of realized that there's this thing
called cosmic consciousness
and as we connect with cosmic cosmic
consciousness we gain more realizations
and so there's a lot of information out
there in the outside world but the
process of understanding happens
internally and there's like basically
this gigantic
super computer that has all of the
understanding of the universe and it is
our ability to connect with that super
computer and download that understanding
from the super computer that results in
understanding
and so that's that's kind of like a
bizarre way of thinking about it right
like it's not really how we think about
it
but this is where let's understand where
how they came up with this conclusion so
they came up with this conclusion
through observation of themselves and so
this is sort of like another guyana yoga
practice that we're going to share with
you so i want y'all to think about
where understanding comes from right so
sit down and look at a book read a book
that you haven't read before and try to
figure out like where is the actual
understanding coming from is it coming
from the book or is it coming from me
what is the function of the book
and the best i can kind of say is that
if for me what it feels like is a
trigger it feels like books
are
keys to locks within myself there's like
a box of understanding within me and if
i find the right key i can open it up
but like that the understanding is
within me
and someone is sort of saying it
stimulates your thoughts like that's
been my experience that the thoughts
actually happen up here
and all i need is the right kind of
stimulation to bring out the right kind
of understanding right and so this is
even the word someone else in chat is
saying eureka so like even the idea the
original word genius is not a person
it's like a temporary effect that hits
you right genius is a state of mind it's
not a human being that's changed as our
language has changed but even like the
ancient greeks sort of conceived of it
that way that eureka understanding the
light bulb going off in your head it's
not like the like even in our you know
iconography it's not like the light bulb
is shown up here the light bulb is above
my head
so understanding happens entirely
internally
and so this is it's kind of a drastic
way of thinking about it but then if you
sort of think about it then like no
person
like the ownership of the knowledge is
within that cosmic consciousness is not
owned by any particular person anyone
can access it and this is also why if
you sort of think about it like multiple
human beings can make the same discovery
right how is that even possible it's
kind of bizarre
because it implies that even the word
discovery implies that the knowledge
already exists it's just about our our
ability to access it and this is where
we sort of think in the west that that
discovery happens externally but it
doesn't happen externally it happens
internally
and you can even look at things like
nobel prize winning experiments in
medicine and you can sort of see that
you can there's
very interesting interviews like if you
talk if you read interviews from nobel
laureates in physiology and medicine
about what kind of discovery they made
it's like really interesting because
most of it is internal
so what happened is like the data's
always been there
it's the interpretation of the data
which is revolutionary and in fact what
they do is they so this is going to get
kind of tangential but i think it's like
really proves a point
so the world conceives of physiology in
a particular way this is how physiology
works
so the external world's representation
of physiology is a particular way
the way you become a noble laureate in
physiology is that you look at the
external world and you have a revelation
in here which you communicate to the
rest of the world and then the rest of
the world's sense of physiology changes
do you guys get that scientific
discovery does not happen externally in
fact it is an internal revelation that
changes the external landscape of
science
that's what a scientific discovery truly
is
which is kind of bizarre because it's
the very opposite of what we think about
right we think about science as an
external discovery
does that make sense
okay hold on does that work
no blurry
i feel like i'm
there we go
so it's a very bizarre way of thinking
about it so if you guys really want to
understand this like
you should just
explore it yourself see for yourself
because if you kind of think about it
you know how can someone conceive of a
book
like how does that happen
right like
it just comes from somewhere but you
don't know where it comes from like you
can come up with an idea so this is like
we sort of take it for granted that we
have creativity within us like wait a
second hold on
how does that work where does creativity
come from
it's bizarre
yeah so
and so this is where like you know
philosophically i encourage you all to
think a little bit about you know what
happens in science like you have an
experiment and then the external world
shows you something
and the process of science is revealing
right it's a process of revelation and
discovery not creation
so everything is already there
so even if you look at like old sanskrit
texts
they actually describe physics with this
word mahat which means cosmic
intelligence
so they actually like talk about the law
you know the laws of the universe and
physics they refer to it as a cosmic
intelligence
and understanding of those things is
like
you know
it's kind of weird so like it's just
strange
it's a different perception that once
you start to meditate and once you
really look at yourself so like the next
time you're studying i strongly
encourage you to think about where does
the understanding come from does it
truly come from the book
and what's the best way to understand so
here's a studying tip
so like
if the knowledge truly comes from the
book
which we know scientifically we'll get
to this in a second but
you know then the best thing to do is to
read the book over and over and over
again but what we know from like the
science of studying is that the most
effective way to study is not repeating
the intake of information the most
effective way of studying is to practice
bringing stuff out
right that's why like
doing
you know if i have a choice between
reading a book a book chapter five times
or reading a book chapter twice
and doing three practice tests the
student who does reads the book chapter
twice and does three practice tests will
score higher than the person who reads
the book chapter five times
it is the act of recall that correlates
with better performance on on tests and
if we think about what is recall like
that also is kind of a bizarre
process if you really stop and look at
it
like you're just like floating around
like like i'm talking to twitch and then
suddenly like someone asked me a
question and out of the ether of my mind
an answer shoots forward
right it's like really bizarre so by the
way i mean we just talked about it now
but if you guys are more interested in
this stuff there's there's the path of
knowledge or the nyanapada in dr k's
guide to meditation so then
explains like some of these concepts and
how to study and like how to learn and
like different types of knowledge and
stuff like that
so check that out
if you are interested uh uh okay
another quick thing to remember for
those of you that feel like your recall
is messed up
so here's what i've discovered as a
psychiatrist if you feel like your
recall sucks and your memory sucks
75 of the time your memory is fine it is
your attention that's the problem so
remember that in order to recall
something
it has to be implanted first and most
young people who have trouble recalling
things don't actually have any trouble
with recall
they actually have trouble with
implantation
so if you don't attend to a particular
stimulus
it will never get planted in your brain
which means that you will forget
because what we call forgetting is
attempting to recall something but if
nothing is there or we knew it once and
we forgot it we both interpret both of
those things as is forget so if you
think about losing your keys for example
the problem with losing your keys is
that you never knew where they were in
the first place right you were not
paying attention when you set them down
somewhere how do you lose things around
the house it's not that you knew where
it was and then you forgot it's that you
never attended to it in the first place
so if you all have trouble with recall
what you need to do is practice and
train your attention
does that make sense
so training attention by the way is like
one of the most underdeveloped skills in
society like training your attention is
like op chat
how do you train your attention with
adhd the simplest way is actually to
meditate so any kind of meditation will
strengthen your attention for the most
part
this is why i like so i think breath
meditations are good the rotating sound
awareness meditation is good
um so remember that with adhd what you
want is a meditation that has a variable
stimulus
so what i mean by that is like
something that your mind can
stay in the same zone but move around
within that zone so you can rotate from
one sound to another you can look at
lots of different leaves on a tree so
like for example what you can do is like
go outside your
step outside or look outside your window
and try to see as many objects as you
can as rapidly as you can so that's a
rotating sight meditation there's like
you know grass there ant mound there
tree there leaves over here acorns here
dog poop there dog over there person
over there car over there and rotate
through them just sit calmly with your
back straight look out onto the world
and just see as many things as you can
and so even though your mind has a
tendency to want to move so you want to
let it move if you've got adhd
but you're still
encompassing it within the space of
we're just going to look at random
things
and i'm telling y'all to do it outside
for a reason
okay so you've got to be careful because
you don't want to interpret what you see
so when you look at six consoles in your
room for example you're gonna start
thinking about games and then you'll no
longer be doing the practice
it's far more
it's far easier to slip up with
interpretation in your room
than it is to slip up with
interpretation outside
how often do you have to do it until
improvement so most of the studies on
meditation require about 30 min 20
minutes of practice at least three days
a week for eight weeks that's when you
will see a statistically significant
change
in some kind of symptom like attention
so that's about eight weeks is about how
long it takes to start to see like
neuronal change
and now that also is like a broad scale
conclusion okay it's like i've read like
probably 300 studies on meditation and
if you average them all together they
usually do they're like eight week
studies and people see like change
is the effect size reasonable absolutely
so you know for meditation for example
like i'll expect a 20 improvement in
some on average in symptoms from
meditation that's what i would expect as
a clinician
you